I am making a NextJS website using React, Typescript, and a variety of other services/libraries.

I am using : 
Clerk for my authentication,
Postgresql for my database,
MaterialUI and ShadCN for my UI

This webiste should be a calorie tracker site for indian users to track their indian foods.
My intention is to make it a single page layout.

At the top of the screen should be a permanent header with the user options. For example, if the user is logged in, clerk will provide me with a user button with which the user can view and manage their account and sign out or delete. This header will be visible no matter if the user is logged in or logged out, but if the user is logged out it will just say sign in.

Below the header, there should be 3 body panes in a css grid type of format. These columns should span the width of the whole page. Columns 1 and 2 should also be the remaining heighht of the page. Column 3 should be split where the first part takes 2/3 of the remaining column height and part 2 takes the remaining 1/3 of the column height. Column 1 will be a graphical tracker for the user to observe their weight and calorie fluctuations over time. Column 2 will have a built in search bar where upon clicking a general list of foods will appear in a dropdown. As the user types each character, a query will be made to the database based on whatever is in the search field and whatever this query returns is what the dropdown will be populated with. Column 3 part 1 will be a cyclical calorie tracker for the day where how many calories you've consumed for the day will show up as a percentage of how much you should have for the whole day. column 3 part 2 is just a macro tracker for the day like protein carbs sodium salt fats, etc.

the database should store the user id i get from clerk for the user, along with a field for food consumption type of things. Like each food entry will have the id of the food along with a way to show how many calories like portion size or something.

the food table in the database should first have the food id, food name, then a way for portion sizes like the diff between daal and dosa :  a bowl of daal vs a piece of dosa, and then the nurttional info should scale accordingly based on the selected porttion size. but the food db itself should just have a base value. when the user selects a food and does everything in the ui, they should be able to select portion size etc there and this info should be saved to the users food for the day.